Create Intro to Group Analytics doc (#209)
avohq/docs: pages/data-design/groups.mdx

---
layout: 'guide'
title: 'Intro to Group analytics'
---

import Link from '../../components/Link';

When doing product analytics you may find yourself in a position when you need to analyze behavior of a group of users, or you need to group
different actions together into a group.

There are two main ways of group analytics that we are going to look at in this article:

> - Grouping users
> - Grouping actions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  <a href="#grouping-users">Grouping users</a>
-  <a href="#grouping-events">Grouping events</a>
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For getting group analytics going in practice, read on about <a href="#managing-group-analytics">Managing Group Analytics</a>

```

> ## Groups terminology across platforms

Reviewer: TODO move this section to the bottom of this page.

---
layout: 'guide'
title: 'Intro to Group analytics'
---

import Link from '../../components/Link';

When doing product analytics you may find yourself in a position when you need to analyze behavior of a group of users, or you need to group
different actions together into a group.

There are two main ways of group analytics that we are going to look at in this article:

- Grouping users
- Grouping actions

> #### Groups concepts

Reviewer: I think this section is unnecessarily early in this doc. As reader learning about why I'd use Group Analytics, the sections about Grouping Users and Grouping Events are more valuable to learn the high level idea. 

I'd suggest:
1. moving this to the bottom, 
2. having it higher level in the page tree (## instead of ####)
3. renaming to "Group terminology across platforms"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Groups terminology across platforms
```

There are two main concepts when working with group analytics. In Avo they are called “Group Types” and “Group Ids”. See reference table below for what “Group Types” and “Group IDs” are called in other platforms.

Group types are the types of groups you manage, for example companies, branches, chats and so on.

Group ids are identifiers of the individual groups of those group types, for example in the “Company” group type you’d have group ids as names of the companies, like “Alibaba”, “Moderna”, “Uber”.

|                      |            |            |
| -------------------- | ---------- | ---------- |

> | Concepts in Avo      | Group Type | Group Id   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Concepts in Avo:      | Group Type | Group Id   |
```

> | Concept in Amplitude | Group Type | Group Name |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Concept in Amplitude: | Group Type | Group Name |
```

> | Concept in Mixpanel  | Group Key  | Group Id   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Concept in Mixpanel:  | Group Key  | Group Id   |
```

> | Concept in Segment   | Group Id   | Group Name |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Concept in Segment:   | Group Id   | Group Name |
```

## Grouping users

> You can associate users with groups. Then that user profile as well as every action user makes will be attributed to the associated group.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can associate users with groups. Then that user profile, as well as every subsequent event associated with that user, will be attributed to the respective groups.
```

This is useful for example for B2B products, when each individual user of the product belongs to a company, and every action of that user should be attributed to that one company.

See further use cases and which analytics platforms support grouping users below in <Link passHref href="/data-design/groups#associate-user-with-group"><a>Associate user with group</a></Link>.

> ## Grouping actions

Reviewer: With a recent confusion I saw as the Sales Eng for Axel Springer, was around what Actions are.

I often like talking about user actions (logging user actions rather than logging events), and I believe that was the concept behind naming this section that. But in light that we have a product concept called Actions, I think we should rename this to "Grouping events"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Grouping events
```

You can associate events with groups without associating the user with a group. This is useful if you have product concepts where each user can perform actions in different groups.

For example if you have a chat app and want to analyze the performance of different channels.

See further use cases and which analytics platforms support grouping events below in <Link passHref href="/data-design/groups#associate-event-with-group"><a>Associate event with group</a></Link>.

## Managing Group Analytics

### Associate user with group

**Functionality**: This action will associate this user with a specific group ID in your downstream data.
This is supported by Avo, Segment, Mixpanel and Amplitude, and additionally you can use this method for your data warehouse via custom destinations in Avo.

[//]: # 'TODO [TO CONFIRM] Consequences: All future [todo confirm this applies to Mixp and Segm as well] events triggered with this user ID, will be available for group analyses such as calculating metrics based on unique groups.'

**Consequences**: All events triggered with this user ID will be available for group analyses. See

> <a

Reviewer: looks like something's broken here 👀 

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2991926/128448973-287e751c-a19c-4a46-af66-beceac5826d2.png)

Author: This is because we have a TODO comment in between, and comments in markdown are a bit of a hack, so they require  a new line. Will rearrange it

Author: Ah wait, that's not the case, what problem do you mean here?

Reviewer: looks like this is resolved :)

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2991926/128872308-8b26e4ad-a050-4b82-b0f7-9451ac6d3805.png)

This is not supported by Segment.

**Use case**: You should log events with a group when you have product concepts where users can be associated with many groups through their lifetime.

_Example_: If you have "Branches" in your product, of which users can create many through their lifetime, then you can create a "Branches" group to understand the lifetime of a branch, for example time from branch open to branch closed, etc. Then, instead of permanently associating the user profile with a specific branch, you associate only the branch related events to specific branch IDs.

_Example_: If you have chat channels, you can log the “Message Sent” event with the “Channel” group and the specific channel ID, so you can do analysis of channels such as retention by channel (as opposed to retention by individual users).

**How to manage in Avo**: Add the "Log Event" action type to an Avo event. Then add the Group you want to associate this event with.

### Update Group Properties

Conceptually the group properties are quite similar to user properties. You can maintain group metadata, aka group properties, for the group IDs that you associate users or events with.

> The first step is defining your groups (group types and group ids). Then you can attach and update specific properties about the groups.

Reviewer: TODO: Add link to Groups terminology across platforms section

> **Functionality**: This action will update metadata about a specific group, by updating the group metadata (e.g. member count of a team). This is supported by Avo, Segment, Mixpanel and Amplitude, and additionally you can use this method for your data warehouse via custom destinations in Avo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Functionality**: This action will update metadata associated with a specific group (e.g. member count of a team). This is supported by Avo, Segment, Mixpanel and Amplitude, and additionally you can use this method for your data warehouse via custom destinations in Avo.
```

**Consequences**:

[//]: # 'TODO [TO CONFIRM] For Mixpanel and Amplitude: Future events associated with this specific group will have the updated metadata about the group available for filtering, segmentation, etc.'

> For Mixpanel and Amplitude: Specific group will have the updated metadata about the group available for filtering, segmentation, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Mixpanel and Amplitude: Future events associated with this specific group will have the updated metadata about the group available for filtering, segmentation, etc.
```

> For Segment: You can only update group properties on the user level, not on the event level. This means that when you update group properties, it will automatically associate the user permanently with this group.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Segment: Note that you can not update group properties without associating the current user with that group. This means that when you update group properties, it will automatically associate the user permanently with this group.
```

---
layout: 'guide'
title: 'Using groups and group properties'
//abstract: 'Global namespace for events and properties'
---

import Link from '../../components/Link';

## Groups

Groups are used to link individual users or events with a group or account.

> ### Linking users to groups

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Associate user with Group
```

Reviewer: Should we call it Associate user with group?

Often users belong to a group for a long period of time and all their actions should be automatically assigned to that group.
In that case it makes sense to link that user to a group.

The most common use cases include keeping track of a company, organization, account or a team using your product.

### Linking events to groups

> In other cases, when users not permanently belong to a group, it might make sense to only link certain events to groups.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In other cases, when users do not permanently belong to a group, it might make sense to only link certain events to groups.
```

Examples of this case include: playlists in a music app, broadcast channels in messaging apps or a dashboard in analytics software.

### Why use Groups

Using Group properties in analytics destinations like Segment, Mixpanel and Amplitude,

> will allow you to for example calculate Group retention or Group conversion rates,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
will allow you to calculate Group retention or Group conversion rates for example,
```
